# §2.2.1.5.1.2 In-Rack Sprinkler System Types



1. Depending on the ambient temperature of the ASRS area being protected, in-rack sprinkler systems

can be:

a. Wet-pipe sprinkler systems

b. Antifreeze solution sprinkler system consisting of 20% to 25% propylene, or 30% to 35% glycerinc. Dry-pipe sprinkler systemsd. Non-interlocked, single-interlocked, or double-interlocked preaction sprinkler systemse. Refrigerated area sprinkler systems, orf. Vacuum-type sprinkler systems

2. An in-rack sprinkler system consisting of 20% to 25% concentration of propylene glycol in water or a

glycerin solution with a concentration of 30% to 35% in water is acceptable for ambient temperaturesbetween 32°F (0°C) and 40°F (4°C). Wet-pipe sprinkler system designs can be used for in-racksprinkler systems having these anti-freeze solution concentrations.

3. Except for wet-pipe sprinkler systems and the anti-freeze solution sprinkler systems outlined above,

use dry-pipe sprinkler system designs for all other in-rack sprinkler system types.

4. The maximum water delivery time for all in-rack sprinkler dry-pipe and similar sprinkler systems is 40

seconds upon the operation of the hydraulically most remote in-rack sprinkler.

5. When installing a preaction or refrigerated area sprinkler system, see Data Sheet 2-0 for

recommendations pertaining to the sprinkler system’s activating detection system.

6. See Data Sheet 2-0 for additional recommendations related to the specific sprinkler system type that

is to be installed.