# §2.2.4.2.2.1 Storage Racks Not Requiring Vertical Barriers



_Table:_ Table 21. Dry Sprinkler System Ceiling-Level Protection Guidelines for Open-Top, Combustible Container Storage up to

a Maximum of 10 ft (3.0 m) in a Shuttle ASRS; No. of AS @ psi (bar)

Max. Ceiling Height, ft

(m)Dry System, 280°F (140°C) Nominally Rated, Upright Sprinklers

Standard-Response

K11.2 (K160) K16.8 (K240) K25.2 (K360) K33.6 (K480)

10 (3.0) 30 @ 50 (3.5) 30 @ 18 (1.2) 30 @ 10 (0.7) 30 @ 50 (3.5)

1. When Section 2.2.1.4 indicates that vertical barriers are not required due to transverse flue spaces

being provided, use Table 23 to determine the allowable in-rack sprinkler vertical locations as well asthe corresponding recommended in-rack sprinkler design.8-34 Protection for Automatic Storage

Page 50 FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.

2. Limit the storage height above the top in-rack sprinkler level to a maximum height of 10 ft (3.0 m).

3. While the in-rack sprinkler designs given in Table 23 are based on flow, the corresponding design

pressure for the chosen in-rack sprinkler cannot be less than 7 psi (0.5 bar). When the design pressurewill be less than 7 psi (0.5 bar), use a minimum pressure of 7 psi (0.5 bar) for design purposes,regardless of the in-rack sprinkler’s K-factor value.Fig. 14. Horizontal IRAS Arrangement for Open-Top Combustible Containers within a Shuttle ASRS Where Rack Row

Depths Do Not Exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) and the Maximum Horizontal Spacing is 2-1/2 ft (0.75 m) per Table 22Max

3 ft

(0.9 m)8 6 7 5 4 3 2 1Max. 2-1/2 ft

(0.75 m)

IRASMax

18 in.

(450 mm)

The in-rack sprinkler numbers represent which

sprinklers to include in the hydraulic design

depending on the number of in-rack sprinklers

indicated for the in-rack sprinkler design Note: The in-rack sprinklers do not need

to align with the transverse flue spaces

located between the rack uprightsOpen-Top

Container

Fig. 15. Horizontal IRAS Arrangement for Open-Top Combustible Containers within a Shuttle ASRS Where Rack Row

Depths Do Not Exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) and the Maximum Horizontal Spacing is 2 ft (0.60 m) per Table 22Max

3 ft

(0.9 m)8 6 7 5 4 3 2 1Max. 2 ft

(0.6 m)Open-Top

Container

IRASMax

18 in.

(450 mm)

The in-rack sprinkler numbers represent which

sprinklers to include in the hydraulic design

depending on the number of in-rack sprinklers

indicated for the in-rack sprinkler design

Fig. 16. Horizontal IRAS Arrangement for Open-Top Combustible Containers within a Shuttle ASRS Where Rack Row

Depths Do Not Exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) and the Maximum Horizontal Spacing is 4 ft (1.2 m) per Table 22Max

3 ft

(0.9 m)8 6 7 5 4 3 2 1Max. 4 ft

(1.2 m)

IRASMax

18 in.

(450 mm)

The in-rack sprinkler numbers represent which

sprinklers to include in the hydraulic design

depending on the number of in-rack sprinklers

indicated for the in-rack sprinkler designOpen-Top

ContainerProtection for Automatic Storage 8-34

FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets Page 51

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.