# §2.2.7.2.2.1 Storage Racks Not Requiring Vertical Barriers



1. When Section 2.2.1.4 indicates that vertical barriers are not required due to transverse flue spaces

being provided, use Table 40 to determine the allowable in-rack sprinkler vertical locations as well asthe corresponding recommended in-rack sprinkler design.

2. Limit the storage height above the top in-rack sprinkler level to a maximum height of 10 ft (3.0 m).Fig. 34. Horizontal IRAS Arrangement for Open-Top Combustible Containers within a Mini-Load ASRS Where Rack Row

Depths Do Not Exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) and the Maximum Horizontal Spacing is 2-1/2 ft (0.75 m) per Table 39Max

3 ft

(0.9 m)8 6 7 5 4 3 2 1Max. 2-1/2 ft

(0.75 m)

IRASMax

18 in.

(450 mm)

The in-rack sprinkler numbers represent which

sprinklers to include in the hydraulic design

depending on the number of in-rack sprinklers

indicated for the in-rack sprinkler design Note: The in-rack sprinklers do not need

to align with the transverse flue spaces

located between the rack uprightsOpen-Top

Container

Fig. 35. Horizontal IRAS Arrangement for Open-Top Combustible Containers within a Mini-Load ASRS Where Rack Row

Depths Do Not Exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) and the Maximum Horizontal Spacing is 2 ft (0.60 m) per Table 39Max

3 ft

(0.9 m)8 6 7 5 4 3 2 1Max. 2 ft

(0.6 m)Open-Top

Container

IRASMax

18 in.

(450 mm)

The in-rack sprinkler numbers represent which

sprinklers to include in the hydraulic design

depending on the number of in-rack sprinklers

indicated for the in-rack sprinkler design

Fig. 36. Horizontal IRAS Arrangement for Open-Top Combustible Containers within a Mini-Load ASRS Where Rack Row

Depths Do Not Exceed 3 ft (0.9 m) and the Maximum Horizontal Spacing is 4 ft (1.2 m) per Table 39Max

3 ft

(0.9 m)8 6 7 5 4 3 2 1Max. 4 ft

(1.2 m)

IRASMax

18 in.

(450 mm)

The in-rack sprinkler numbers represent which

sprinklers to include in the hydraulic design

depending on the number of in-rack sprinklers

indicated for the in-rack sprinkler designOpen-Top

ContainerProtection for Automatic Storage 8-34

FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets Page 79

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.