# §2.2.1.5.1.1 Ceiling-Level Sprinkler System Types



1. Depending on the ambient temperature of the ASRS area being protected, ceiling-level sprinkler systems

can be:

a. Wet-pipe sprinkler systems

b. Antifreeze solution sprinkler system consisting of a 20% to 30% propylene glycol or up to 35% glycerinc. Dry-pipe sprinkler systemsd. Non-interlocked, single-interlocked, or double-interlocked preaction sprinkler systemse. Refrigerated area sprinkler systems, orf. Vacuum-type sprinkler systems

2. A ceiling-level sprinkler system consisting of 20% to 30% concentration of propylene glycol in water

or a glycerin solution with a concentration up to 35% in water is acceptable for ambient temperaturesbetween 32ºF (0°C) and 40°F (4°C). Wet-pipe sprinkler system designs can be utilized for ceilingsprinkler systems having these anti-freeze solution concentrations.

3. The maximum water delivery time for all ceiling-level dry-pipe and similar sprinkler systems is 40

seconds upon the operation of the hydraulically most remote 4 sprinklers (2 sprinklers on 2 lines).

4. When installing a preaction, refrigerated area, or vacuum-type sprinkler system, see Data Sheet 2-0

for recommendations pertaining to the sprinkler system’s activating detection system.

5. Ceiling sprinkler designs for single-interlocked preaction sprinkler systems can be either classified as

“wet-pipe” or “dry-pipe,” depending on the installation of the activating detection system. See Data Sheet2-0 to determine the installation requirements needed for the detection system to achieve a sprinklersystem design classification of wet pipe. Design the single-interlocked preaction system using thedry-pipe sprinkler system designs when the detection installation is not in compliance with theProtection for Automatic Storage 8-34

FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets Page 17

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.