# §2.3.6.1.9.3 The installation of visible imaging cameras can be used in lieu of infrared cameras when:Fig. 51. Example of TL-ASRS arrangement protected by fixed-in-place monitor nozzles installed at ceiling levelTop-Loading ASRS Grid Area



A. Install longwave infrared (LWIR) cameras, capable of panning and tilting, that have a spectral range

of 8-12 µm, a minimum spatial resolution of 15 pixels/ft (45 pixels/m), measured at the farthest position fromthe camera along the top surface of the storage array, and a field of view (FOV) that does not exceed25°. Avoid the use of IR cameras that use charge-coupled device (CCD) sensors.

B. Locate the cameras vertically as high as possible over the storage grid while also avoiding obstruction

to the camera’s view. Position the cameras horizontally as close as possible to the halfway markin-between the locations of the fixed-in-place monitor nozzles. Maintain a minimum horizontal distanceof 10 ft (3.0 m) from any camera to the nearest fixed-in-place monitor nozzle.

C. Install the cameras so that every column of the storage array can be viewed by a minimum of two

cameras.

D. When possible, incorporate data into the camera view that can communicate to the remote location

operator the specific location of the storage grid the camera is viewing.

Monitor Nozzle> 100 ft

(30 m)< 100 ft (30 m) < 50 ft (15 m)

Plan View< 100 ft

(30 m)

< 50 ft

(30 m)

Top of Grid

< 100 ft (30 m)Ceiling

Top-Loading ASRS

Storage AreaPerimeter

MezzaninePerimeter

Mezzanine

FloorMonitor

Nozzle

Elevation ViewMonitor

Nozzle8-34 Protection for Automatic Storage

Page 98 FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.