# §2.3.7.7.2 Small Hose Connection Stations



3. Establish readily accessible, clearly marked designated locations along the side walls of the ASRS

unit that can be used as access points to the storage area. Provide as many access points as possibleto limit the horizontal distance between the access point and the potential fire area within the storagearea. See Figure 54 for an example of this arrangement.

B. If the horizontal distances between the ends of the storage array will exceed 100 ft (30 m) in both directions,

install solid-floored elevated mezzanine levels that will limit the horizontal distances between mezzaninesto 100 ft (30 m) and the maximum horizontal distances for hose stream application to 50 ft (15 m). Arrangethe elevated mezzanines to allow robots the ability to pass underneath them. See Figure 55 for an exampleof this arrangement.

C. The installation of elevated mezzanines, as outlined in Section 2.3.7.7.1(B), can be avoided at the written

discretion of the local authority having jurisdiction.

A. To aid in manual fire fighting efforts and after-extinguishment mop-up operations, install small hose

connection stations near the floor-level access points established for the local fire service and on themezzanine levels (perimeter and elevated). Consult with the local fire service or authority having jurisdictionto determine their recommendations regarding the following:

1. The use of wet- or dry-barrel stations, and

2. The size of the hose connections, and3. The horizontal distance between stations.

B. Design the small hose connection station system to provide a minimum flow of 50 gpm (190 L/min) from

each of the two most hydraulically remote stations (100 gpm [380 L/min] total).

C. Arrange the water supplies feeding these stations in one of the following ways:Fig. 54. Example of a TL-ASRS arrangement showing maximum 100 ft (30 m) depth in one directionPerimeter Mezzanine Level

Top-Loading ASRS Grid Area

Egress to

Mezzanine LevelPerimeter Mezzanine Level< 100 ft

(30 m)8-34 Protection for Automatic Storage

Page 106 FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.