# §2.3 Top-Loading Automatic Storage and Retrieval Systems (TL-ASRS) .............................................. 88



2. Added instructions for users to see Data Sheet 8-9 for the protection of rack structure ASRS storage

arrangements.

3. Noted that protection options for open-top, gridded-bottom containers used within either mini-load

or top-loading ASRS storage arrangements are outside the scope of this data sheet.

B. The following changes were made specific to mini-load ASRS storage arrangements:

1. Moved all the protection options specific to mini-load ASRS storage arrangements to this document

(i.e., users no longer referred to Data Sheet 8-9 for certain storage arrangements)

2. Added new guidelines for solid-walled noncombustible containers.3. Added dry-pipe sprinkler protection options.4. Noted that protection options for expanded plastic trays and containers are outside the scope of

this data sheet.

5. Added information on shuttle-type ASRS storage arrangements in Section 2.1 and Appendix A.

C. The following changes were made specific to top-loading ASRS storage arrangements:

1. Noted that protection options for open-top, gridded-bottom containers are outside the scope of this

data sheet.

2. Added protection options for open-top, non-solid walled containers to this data sheet.3. Added protection options for noncombustible open-top, solid-walled containers to this data sheet.8-34 Protection for Automatic Storage

Page 118 FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.

D. Clarified TL-ASRS storage arrangements regarding what is needed for sprinkler protection (suppression

or control) and what is needed for final extinguishment. Added new sections for each ASRS storagearrangement specific to final extinguishment.

E. Added definitions to Appendix A to clarify guidance for the various types of containers described in

this data sheet.

January 2020. Interim revision. Significant changes include the following:

A. Added loss prevention guidelines for top-loading ASRS arrangements that use solid-walled (open- and

closed-top containers).

B. Reformatted the document so each ASRS storage arrangement now has its own section.C. Incorporated the results of recent full-scale fire testing of top-loading automatic storage and retrieval

systems using solid-walled plastic containers.

January 2018. Interim revision. Clarifications were made to section 2.2.4.2, Longitudinal Flue Spaces,

corrected reference to the table in sections 2.2.4.1.3 and 2.3.4.1.2. Also corrections were made to Table 11,IRAS Design Guidelines.

October 2017. Interim revision. Minor editorial changes were made.

July 2017. This data sheet has been completely rewritten. The following major changes were made:

A. This data sheet now addresses protection options for ASRS vertically enclosed, rack-structure,

mini-load, and other storage arrangements in which the horizontal support for product material handlinguses rails, angle irons, or other similar supporting structures. When in-rack automatic sprinkler (IRAS)protection is needed, the protection now offered in this data sheet is designed to prevent the fire fromgrowing vertically past the in-rack sprinkler protection that has been installed. With this arrangement, theceiling and in-rack sprinkler systems operate independent of each other and thus do not need to behydraulically balanced nor designed with both systems operating concurrently.

B. The term “storage sprinkler” has been incorporated into this data sheet to replace “Control Mode Density

Area (CMDA) sprinkler.”

C. Ceiling-level sprinkler designs now use the “number of sprinklers @ minimum pressure” design format

in place of the previously used “density/demand area” design format.

D. Added terms to Appendix A, Glossary of Terms.

January 2003. Clarification regarding the storage clearance was added.

September 2000. This revision of the document has been reorganized to provide a consistent format.Protection for Automatic Storage 8-34

FM Global Property Loss Prevention Data Sheets Page 119

©2017-2024 Factory Mutual Insurance Company. All rights reserved.